We will talk about segmentation.
I think it is interesting
that we go into depth in this
type of segmentation because it
is growing very much and it brings
huge benefits to companies.
I remember the concept.
What is segmentation by behavior?
It consists of identifying
segments within our current
customers or our potential
customers based on their behavior
as customers, that is, based
on their relationship
with us.
There are many possibilities
to segment.
We can segment according to
how much money they are generating,
when is the last time they bought,
how often they buy, what
products they bought,
etc.
There are thousands of possibilities.
What I want today is that you understand
why this is growing so much and
let’s look at some examples that
help you visualize how it is
used in the day-to-day practice.
Behavioral segmentation,
what is it that allows us or what
benefits it generates?
Basically what allows us to know
what works because what we
do is look back at the past,
analyze our customers’ relationships
with us and see what works
or what doesn’t work.
And when you know what works and
what doesn’t, the next thing
you can do is optimize it.
Optimize in what direction?
Well, because we can sell more,
we can improve the capture campaigns,
etc.
Why is?
We will adapt to each
customer better.
If we made a stream of how this
works, it would basically
be like that.
The first thing you need to do is
be able to get the information.
You have in mind that you generate
endless or thousands or millions
of interactions with customers
every day.
And if we want to segment according
to those interactions, we have to be
able to measure them and from that
information what we do is identify
segments, which as we will see there
are many possibilities and in the
end this serves us to adapt
the proposals.
That is, if we have identified a
segment that is dissatisfied with
us, for example, because what we
have to do is a proposal adapted
to manage that complaint.
Imagine, I will just give you an example.
And we go to the first of the blocks
that is to obtain the information.
Well, here I want you to know that
the key that companies are increasingly
using behavioral segmentation
is that we are increasingly
able to measure absolutely
everything that happens
to customers.
And this is primarily or more
often done in companies
that we have a relationship
through our potential customers.
The tools are increasing,
the tools we can use
to measure or manage that
footprint that is generated
every day.
Traditionally companies have used
software such as CRM or RP in
which, well, as I said, it is
creating the footprint of
what is being generated, but
it is now all smaller companies
have access to software.
Imagine an e-commerce, because
it has the tool, a tool like
Shopify, for example, because
it generates a lot of information
because they are prepared
for this, they are prepared
so that you can manage
that information.
Or if you use a marketing automation
tool like Active Campaign, for example,
because you can configure it
so that it measures absolutely
everything and in a personalized
way of each customer.
Or if you use Mailchimp, which
is used by millions of companies
around the world, it is a software
to send emailings.
Mailchimp tells you how many
people have opened emails, how
many have opened emails, and so on.
by Hotjar.
Hotjar is a web analytics tool
that, for example, among other
things, allows you to generate
what we have on screen,
in which you are seeing
what customers do on your
website, but it is that
you could see for each of
the customers.
Well, what I want you to stay
with is that we have more and more
information and therefore, we
can segment more and more precisely
and adapt more, to the point
that we can segment already
for each person.